---
title: Create A New Origami Component - Part 7 Documentation
description: A step-by-step tutorial which teaches you how to build and deploy a new Origami component.
cta: Learn how to create an Origami component
collection_listing_display: false

---

# {{page.title}}

In part seven we will add documentation to our component. With good documentation we can save people time and frustration by making our component as easy to use as possible. Thorough documentation will also help future contributors to our new component.

## Tone & language

People from various backgrounds across the Financial Times use and contribute to Origami components, so its important to consider communication in documentation carefully.

To help write clear documentation there are [Origami tone & language principles](/docs/principles/tone-and-language/). For example we work as a team so use ["we" over "I"](/docs/principles/tone-and-language/#prefer-we-to-i); for clarity and to express responsibility we use an [active voice](/docs/principles/tone-and-language/#use-the-active-voice) in component documentation; and as we work with people of different nationalities and backgrounds we [avoid metaphors or colloquialisms](/docs/principles/tone-and-language/#avoid-metaphors-or-colloquialisms).

Read more on the [tone & language principles page](/docs/principles/tone-and-language/).

## Where Components Are Documented

Origami components are documented in four key ways. We have already seen some examples of these:
- The `README.md` file.
- The `origami.json` manifest file.
- SassDoc comments (for components with Sass).
- JSDoc comments (for components with JavaScript).

Lets review each of these types of documentation for our `o-example` component.

## Readme

Perhaps the most important part of component documentation is the `README.md` file, found in the root directory. This is presented in the Origami Registry for each component, for example see the [o-table readme](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-table/readme).

In our `o-example` component there is already a `README.md` with boilerplate content. As the boilerplate table of contents shows, `README.md` includes basic component information such as:
- name
- description
- intended usecase

The readme goes on to provide technical details of how to use the component:
- Markup - [e.g. how to apply themes](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-buttons@6.0.15/readme?brand=master#themes).
- JavaScript - e.g. what [options are available](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-table@8.1.2/readme?brand=master#javascript), and how to [perform common tasks](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-forms@8.3.10/readme?brand=master#state).
- Sass - e.g. where and why to use [Sass mixins](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-typography@6.4.3/readme?brand=master#sass)

And concludes with general information:
- Contact
- Licence

For more complex or novel components there may be additional sections such as for troubleshooting and contributing to the component. Components which have released major changes may also include a migration section which points to a `MIGRATION.md` file to help users upgrade from one version of a component to the next.

Reference the `README.md` generated by `obt init` along with examples from other components to write your own readme. For our component we don't need any special troubleshooting or contributing guides, so can delete those. We also haven't released multiple major versions yet so can delete the migration guide section and `MIGRATION.md` for now.

The readme of a component is thorough but risks becoming verbose so Origami components also document Sass and JavaScript apis separately. This allows more detailed api information that the readme can link to. It also provides engineers who are already familiar with a component a reference, to quickly look up an api.

## SassDoc

## JSDoc

## Origami Manifest


## @todo: put this stashed content somewhere

### bower.json and package.json

[Bower](https://bower.io/) is a package manager used to install Origami component dependencies. The `bower.json` file lists the components dependencies, and points to the main Sass and JavaScript files of the component. One benefit of using Bower is it ensures a flat dependency tree, so two versions of the same component are not install at once.

Although Origami components use Bower to install dependencies, developer dependencies may be installed using the [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) package manager, as seen in `package.json`. Rules for package management are defined in the [package management section of the specification](https://origami.ft.com/spec/v1/components/#package-management).

Although Origami components are authored using Bower, components are published to NPM so projects which use Origami may choose to use NPM over Bower ([but we still recommended Bower for now](https://origami.ft.com/docs/tutorials/npm/)). We'll discuss how components are published to NPM later.
